release note for 1.21 (#14634)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.21.x/announcing-1.21/change-notes/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: I think for this minor release, the `minorReleaseNotes.md` should be used, which has sorted notes by groups. In patch releases, we use `releaseNotes.md`.

Reviewer 2: Yes, minor release notes have things broken up by category whereas releaseNotes are for patch releases which don't.

---

> title: Announcing Istio x.y.z
> linktitle: 1.21.0
> subtitle: Patch Release
> description: Istio x.y.z patch release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Announcing Istio 1.21.0
linktitle: 1.21.0
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.21.0 patch release.
```

Author: done

publishdate: 2020-07-29
release: 1.21.0
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.21.0
---

> {{< warning >}}
> This is an automatically generated rough draft of the release notes and has not yet been reviewed.
> {{< /warning >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: what's the process to remove these warnings?

Reviewer 2: It's part of the proof reading RMs do between running the tool and pasting them into the release notes. The release notes need spelling/grammatical fixes more often than not, the warning is mostly for you to know that it's a rough draft and needs reviewing and correcting before publishing.

CPU size Istiod is running on if not explicitly configured.

- **Added** the ability to configure the IPv4 loopback CIDR used by `istio-iptables` in various firewall rules.
([Issue #47211](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47211))

- **Added** support for automatically setting default network for workloads if they are added to the ambient mesh before the network topology is set.
Before, when you set `topology.istio.io/network` on your Istio root namespace, you needed to manually rollout the ambient workloads to make the network change take effect.
Now, the network of ambient workloads will be automatically updated even if they do not have a network label.
Note that if your ztunnel is not in the same network as what you set in the `topology.istio.io/network` label in your Istio
root namespace, your ambient workloads will not be able to communicate with each other.

- **Added** namespace discovery selector support on gateway deployment controller. It is protected under `ENABLE_ENHANCED_RESOURCE_SCOPING`.
When enabled, the gateway controller will only watch the k8s gateways that match the selector. Note it will affect both gateway and waypoint deployment.

> - **Added** support for the delta ADS client.

Reviewer 3: I think this is `pkg/adsc/delta.go`. Probably did not need a release note

> - **Added** support for the delta ADS client.

Reviewer 4: Release note went in with https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/48031

> - **Added** support for the delta ADS client.

Reviewer 5: Thanks~

- **Added** support for concurrent `SidecarScope` conversion. You can use `PILOT_CONVERT_SIDECAR_SCOPE_CONCURRENCY` to adjust the number of concurrent executions.
Its default value is 1 and will not be executed concurrently.
When `initSidecarScopes` consumes a lot of time and you want to reduce time consumption by increasing CPU consumption,
you can increase the number of concurrent executions by increasing the value of `PILOT_CONVERT_SIDECAR_SCOPE_CONCURRENCY`.

- **Added** support for setting the `:authority` header in virtual service's `HTTPRouteDestination`. Now, we support host rewrite for both `host` and `:authority`.

- **Added** prefixes to the `WasmPlugin` resource name.

- **Added** support for setting `idle_timeout` in `TcpProxy` filters for outbound traffic.

- **Added** support for [In-Cluster Gateway Deployments](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/geps/gep-1762/).

> Deployments now now have both `istio.io/gateway-name` and `gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name` labels like Pods and Services.

Reviewer 6: nit
```suggestion
Deployments now have both `istio.io/gateway-name` and `gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name` labels like Pods and Services.
```

when accessing workloads in a different network.

- **Removed** legacy `EnvoyFilter` implementation for telemetry. For the majority of users, this change has no impact, and
was already enabled in previous releases. However, the following fields are no longer respected: `prometheus.configOverride`,
`stackdriver.configOverride`, `stackdriver.disableOutbound`, `stackdriver.outboundAccessLogging`.

## Extensibility

## Installation

- **Improved** Abort graceful termination logic if the Envoy process terminates early  ([Issue #36686](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/36686))

- **Updated** Kiali addon to version v1.79.0.

- **Added** configurable scaling behavior for Gateway HPA in helm chart
 ([usage]( https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/#configurable-scaling-behavior)) 

- **Added** `allocateLoadBalancerNodePorts` config option to the Gateway chart.
  ([Issue #48751](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48751))

- **Added** a message to indicate the default webhook shifting from a revisioned installation to a default installation.
  ([Issue #48643](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48643))

> - **Added** affinity field to Istiod Deployment. This field is used to control the scheduling of Istiod pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `affinity` field to Istiod Deployment. This field is used to control the scheduling of Istiod pods.
```

> - **Added** tolerations field to Istiod Deployment. This field is used to control the scheduling of Istiod pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** `tolerations` field to Istiod Deployment. This field is used to control the scheduling of Istiod pods.
```

- **Added** support for "profiles" to Helm installation. Try it out with `--set profile=demo`!
  ([Issue #47838](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47838))

> - **Added** Set the ztunnel DaemonSet priorityClassName to system-node-critical to ensure it is running on all nodes
>   ([Issue #47867](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47867))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** the setting `priorityClassName: system-node-critical` to the ztunnel DaemonSet template to ensure it is running on all nodes.
  ([Issue #47867](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47867))
```

> - **Fixed** an issue where the webhook generated with `istioctl tag set` is unexpectedly being removed by the installer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where the webhook generated with `istioctl tag set` is unexpectedly removed by the installer.
```

  ([Issue #47423](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47423))

- **Fixed** an issue where uninstalling Istio didn't prune all the resources created by custom files.
  ([Issue #47960](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47960))

> - **Fixed** an issue where the installation might be blocked by a "conflicting webhook" error if a previous installation was interrupted or failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where an installation might be blocked by a "conflicting webhook" error if a previous installation was interrupted or failed.
```

  ([Issue #48112](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48112))

- **Fixed** an issue where the Istio injection webhook may be modified in dry-run mode.
  ([Issue #48241](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48241))

> - **Fixed** an issue `Makefile.k8s.mk` `fetch-root-ca` if-condition not work and can not handle `cacerts` case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Not user-facing.

> - **Fixed** an issue where injection failed when the name of the pod or its custom owner exceeded 63 characters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where injection failed when the name of the Pod or its custom owner exceeded 63 characters.
```

> - **Fixed** an issue where the webhook generated with `istioctl tag set` is unexpectedly being removed by the installer.
>   ([Issue #47423](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47423))
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Duplicate

- **Fixed** an issue causing Istio CNI to stop functioning on minimal/locked down nodes (such as no `sh` binary).
The new logic runs with no external dependencies, and will attempt to continue if errors are encountered (which could be caused by things like SELinux rules).
In particular, this fixes running Istio on Bottlerocket nodes.
  ([Issue #48746](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48746))

> - **Fixed** Custom injection of the `istio-proxy` container was not working on OpenShift because of the way OpenShift sets pod's `SecurityContext.RunAs` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** custom injection of the `istio-proxy` container was not working on OpenShift because of the way OpenShift sets pods' `SecurityContext.RunAs` field.
```

- **Fixed** veth lookup for ztunnel pod on OpenShift where default CNIs do not create routes for each veth interface.

- **Fixed** an issue where installing with Stackdriver and having custom configs would lead to Stackdriver not being enabled.  

> - **Fixed** an issue that Endpoint and Service in istiod-remote chart do not respect the revision value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where Endpoint and Service in the istiod-remote chart did not respect the revision value.
```

  ([Issue #47552](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47552))

- **Removed** support for `policy/v1beta1` API version of `PodDisruptionBudget`.

> - **Removed** using BOOTSTRAP_XDS_AGENT experimental feature to apply BOOTSTRAP EnvoyFilter patches at the startup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Removed** using `BOOTSTRAP_XDS_AGENT` experimental feature to apply `BOOTSTRAP` `EnvoyFilter` patches at startup.
```

- **Removed** support for `.Values.cni.psp_cluster_role` as part of installation, as `PodSecurityPolicy` was [deprecated](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future/).

- **Removed** the `istioctl experimental revision` command. Revisions can be inspected by the stable `istioctl tag list` command.

- **Removed** the `installed-state` `IstioOperator` that was created when running `istioctl install`. This previously provided only a snapshot
of what was installed.
However, it was a common source of confusion (as users would change it and nothing would happen), and did not reliably represent the current state.
As there is no `IstioOperator` needed for these usages anymore, `istioctl install` and `helm install` no longer install the `IstioOperator` CRD.
Note this only impacts `istioctl install`, not the in-cluster operator.

## istioctl

- **Improved** injector list to exclude ambient namespaces.

> - **Improved** bug-report performance by reducing the amount of calls to the k8s API. The pod/node details included in the report will look different, but contain the same information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Improved** `bug-report` performance by reducing the amount of calls to the k8s API. The pod/node details included in the report will look different, but contain the same information.
```

> - **Improved** `istioctl bug-report` to sort gathered events by creation date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Improved** `bug-report` to sort gathered events by creation date.
```

> - **Updated** `verify-install` command now defaults to not requiring a IstioOperator file, since it is now removed from the installation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Updated** `verify-install` to not require a IstioOperator file, since it is now removed from the installation process.
```

> - **Added** support for deleting multiple waypoints at once via `istioctl x waypoint delete <waypoint1> <waypoint2> ...`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for deleting multiple waypoints at once via `istioctl experimental waypoint delete <waypoint1> <waypoint2> ...`
```

> - **Added** a flag `--all` to `istioctl experimental waypoint delete` to delete all Waypoint resources in a given namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `--all` flag to `istioctl experimental waypoint delete` to delete all waypoint resources in a given namespace.
```

- **Added** an analyzer to warn users if they set the `selector` field instead of the `targetRef` field for specific Istio resources, which will cause the resource to be ineffective.
  ([Issue #48273](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48273))

- **Added** message IST0167 to warn users that policies, such as Sidecar, will have no impact when applied to ambient namespaces.
  ([Issue #48105](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48105))

- **Added** bootstrap summary to all config dumps' summary.

- **Added** completion for Kubernetes pods for some commands that can select pods, such as `istioctl proxy-status <pod>`.

> - **Added** `--wait` option to `istioctl experimental waypoint apply` command.  ([Issue #46297](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/46297))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** `--wait` option to `istioctl experimental waypoint apply` command.
  ([Issue #46297](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/46297))
```

> - **Added** `path_separated_prefix` to the MATCH column in the output of `pc routes` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** `path_separated_prefix` to the MATCH column in the output of `proxy-config routes` command.
```

- **Fixed** an issue where sometimes control plane revisions and proxy versions were not obtained in the bug report.

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl tag list` command didn't accept `--output` flag.
  ([Issue #47696](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47696))

> - **Fixed** an issue where the default namespace of envoy and proxy dashboard command was not set to the actual default namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where the default namespace of Envoy and proxy dashboard command was not set to the actual default namespace.
```

- **Fixed** an issue where the IST0158 message was incorrectly reported when the `imageType` field was set to `distroless` in mesh config.
  ([Issue #47964](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47964))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl experimental version` has no proxy info shown.

- **Fixed** an issue where the IST0158 message was incorrectly reported when the `imageType` field was set by the `ProxyConfig` resource, or the resource annotation `proxy.istio.io/config`.

> - **Fixed** an issue `proxyconfig ecds` didn't show all `EcdsConfigDump`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where `proxy-config ecds` didn't show all of `EcdsConfigDump`.
```

> - **Fixed** injector list has duplicated namespace shown for the same injector hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** injector list having duplicated namespaces shown for the same injector hook.
```

> - **Fixed** `istioctl analyze` didn't work correctly when analyzing files containing resources that already exist in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** `analyze` not working correctly when analyzing files containing resources that already exist in the cluster.
```

  ([Issue #44844](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/44844))

> - **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl analyze` reported errors for empty file resource blocks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** `analyze` where it was reporting errors for empty files.
```

  ([Issue #45653](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/45653))

> - **Fixed** an issue where the External Control Plane Analyzer may not work in some remote control plane setups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where the External Control Plane Analyzer was not working in some remote control plane setups.
```

> - **Removed** `--rps-limit` flag for `istioctl bug-report` and **added** `--rq-concurrency` flag.
> The bug reporter will now limit request concurrency instead of limiting request rate to the kube
> API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Removed** the `--rps-limit` flag for `istioctl bug-report` and **added** the `--rq-concurrency` flag.
The bug reporter will now limit request concurrency instead of limiting request rate to the kube
API.
```

---
title: Istio 1.21.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.21.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.21.0 release notes.

> publishdate: 2024-02-26

Author: same question as above.

([Issue #30987](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30987))

- **Added** the `istio.cluster_id` tag to all tracing spans.
([Issue #48336](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48336))

- **Fixed** a bug where `destination_cluster` reported by client proxies was occasionally incorrect
when accessing workloads in a different network.

- **Removed** legacy `EnvoyFilter` implementation for Telemetry. For the majority of users, this change has no impact, and
was already enabled in previous releases. However, the following fields are no longer respected: `prometheus.configOverride`,
`stackdriver.configOverride`, `stackdriver.disableOutbound`, `stackdriver.outboundAccessLogging`.

## Extensibility

- **Added** support for outbound traffic using the PROXY Protocol. By specifying `proxyProtocol` in a `DestinationRule` `trafficPolicy`,
the sidecar will send PROXY Protocol headers to the upstream service. This feature is not supported for HBONE proxy at the present time.

- **Added** support for matching `ApplicationProtocols` in an `EnvoyFilter`.

- **Removed** support for `policy/v1beta1` API version of `PodDisruptionBudget`.

> - **Removed** using `BOOTSTRAP_XDS_AGENT` experimental feature to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Removed** using the `BOOTSTRAP_XDS_AGENT` experimental feature to
```

- **Added** the `affinity` field to Istiod Deployment. This field is used to control the scheduling of Istiod pods.

- **Added** `tolerations` field to Istiod Deployment. This field is used to control the scheduling of Istiod pods.

- **Added** support for "profiles" to Helm installation. Try it out with `--set profile=demo`!
  ([Issue #47838](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47838))

- **Added** the setting `priorityClassName: system-node-critical` to the ztunnel DaemonSet template to ensure it is running on all nodes.
([Issue #47867](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47867))

- **Fixed** an issue where the webhook generated with `istioctl tag set` is unexpectedly removed by the installer.
([Issue #47423](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47423))

- **Fixed** an issue where uninstalling Istio didn't prune all the resources created by custom files.
([Issue #47960](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47960))

- **Fixed** an issue where an installation might be blocked by a "conflicting webhook" error if a previous installation was interrupted or failed.
([Issue #48112](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48112))

> - **Fixed** an issue `Makefile.k8s.mk` `fetch-root-ca` if-condition not work and can not handle `cacerts` case.

Reviewer 4: Not very good grammar and I see another comment to remove this. Fixing or removing is fine.

Author: removed these.

- **Fixed** an issue where injection failed when the name of the Pod or its custom owner exceeded 63 characters.

- **Fixed** an issue causing Istio CNI to stop functioning on minimal/locked down nodes (such as no `sh` binary).
The new logic runs with no external dependencies, and will attempt
to continue if errors are encountered (which could be caused by things
like SELinux rules).
In particular, this fixes running Istio on Bottlerocket nodes.
([Issue #48746](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48746))

> - **Fixed** custom injection of the `istio-proxy` container was not

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** custom injection of the `istio-proxy` container not
```

- **Improved** `istioctl bug-report` to sort gathered events by creation date.

- **Updated** `verify-install` to not require a IstioOperator file, since it is now removed from the installation process.

- **Added** support for deleting multiple waypoints at once via `istioctl experimental waypoint delete <waypoint1> <waypoint2> ...`.

- **Added** the `--all` flag to `istioctl experimental waypoint delete` to delete all waypoint resources in a given namespace.

- **Added** an analyzer to warn users if they set the `selector` field instead of the `targetRef` field for specific Istio resources, which will cause the resource to be ineffective.
  ([Issue #48273](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48273))

- **Added** message IST0167 to warn users that policies, such as Sidecar, will have no impact when applied to ambient namespaces.
  ([Issue #48105](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48105))

- **Added** bootstrap summary to all config dumps' summary.

- **Added** completion for Kubernetes pods for some commands that can select pods, such as `istioctl proxy-status <pod>`.

> - **Added** `--wait` option to `istioctl experimental waypoint apply` command.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Added** `--wait` option to the `istioctl experimental waypoint apply` command.
```

---
title: Istio 1.21.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.21.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.21.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2024-02-23
release: 1.21.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.21.0
---

> ## Deprecation Notices

Reviewer 2: We have removed in the past. At least, I did.

> ## Deprecation Notices

Author: Removed

> These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/docs/releases/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definition). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

Author: 1.21 is supporting `Envoy 1.26-1.29`

> These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/docs/releases/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definition). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

Reviewer 7: Yes, this is to give an early warning. We've been warning for awhile - this would be the final one.

- **Added** support for delta ADS client.

- **Added** support for concurrent `SidecarScope` conversion. You can use `PILOT_CONVERT_SIDECAR_SCOPE_CONCURRENCY` to adjust the number of concurrent executions.
Its default value is 1 and will not be executed concurrently.
When `initSidecarScopes` consumes a lot of time and you want to reduce time consumption by increasing CPU consumption,
you can increase the number of concurrent executions by increasing the value of `PILOT_CONVERT_SIDECAR_SCOPE_CONCURRENCY`.

- **Added** support for setting the `:authority` header in virtual service's `HTTPRouteDestination`. Now, we support host rewrite for both `host` and `:authority`.

- **Added** prefixes to the `WasmPlugin` resource name.

- **Added** support for setting `idle_timeout` in `TcpProxy` filters for outbound traffic.

- **Added** support for outbound traffic using the PROXY Protocol. By specifying `proxyProtocol` in a `DestinationRule` `trafficPolicy`,
the sidecar will send PROXY Protocol headers to the upstream service. This feature is not supported for HBONE proxy at the present time.

> - **Added** support for matching `ApplicationProtocols` in an `EnvoyFilter`.

Reviewer 7: Extensiblity

when SNI was explicitly set in the `DestinationRule`.

- **Fixed** an issue where gateways were unable to fetch JWKS from `jwksUri` in `RequestAuthentication` when `PILOT_FILTER_GATEWAY_CLUSTER_CONFIG`
was enabled and `PILOT_JWT_ENABLE_REMOTE_JWKS` was set to
`hybrid`/`true`/`envoy`.

## Telemetry

- **Improved** JSON access logs to emit keys in a stable ordering.

- **Added** support for `brotli`, `gzip`, and `zstd` compression for the Envoy stats endpoint.
([Issue #30987](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/30987))

- **Added** the `istio.cluster_id` tag to all tracing spans.
([Issue #48336](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48336))

- **Fixed** a bug where `destination_cluster` reported by client proxies was occasionally incorrect
when accessing workloads in a different network.

- **Removed** legacy `EnvoyFilter` implementation for Telemetry. For the majority of users, this change has no impact, and
was already enabled in previous releases. However, the following fields are no longer respected: `prometheus.configOverride`,
`stackdriver.configOverride`, `stackdriver.disableOutbound`, `stackdriver.outboundAccessLogging`.

> ## Extensibility

Reviewer 7: Wasm changes should go here from above.

> ## Extensibility

Author: which one? Can you add them here in the comment?

- **Fixed** an issue where injection failed when the name of the Pod or its custom owner exceeded 63 characters.

- **Fixed** an issue causing Istio CNI to stop functioning on minimal/locked down nodes (such as no `sh` binary).
The new logic runs with no external dependencies, and will attempt
to continue if errors are encountered (which could be caused by things
like SELinux rules).
In particular, this fixes running Istio on Bottlerocket nodes.
([Issue #48746](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48746))

- **Fixed** custom injection of the `istio-proxy` container was not
working on OpenShift because of the way OpenShift sets pods'
`SecurityContext.RunAs` field.

- **Fixed** veth lookup for ztunnel pod on OpenShift where default CNIs
do not create routes for each veth interface.

- **Fixed** an issue where installing with Stackdriver and having
custom configs would lead to Stackdriver not being enabled.

- **Fixed** an issue where Endpoint and Service in the istiod-remote chart did not respect the revision value.
([Issue #47552](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/47552))

- **Removed** support for `policy/v1beta1` API version of `PodDisruptionBudget`.

> - **Removed** using `BOOTSTRAP_XDS_AGENT` experimental feature to apply `BOOTSTRAP` `EnvoyFilter` patches at startup.

Reviewer 7: Extensibility
